and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly email where i'm
sharing actual website and marketing
tips useful podcasts free guides
resources and much much more you can
give it a try over at
businessgrowth.email and start your week
off with a bang every monday
[Music]
so that said my guest today is
welcome to the show how you doing
yeah i'm doing great uh early morning
here thanks for having me sam
thanks for joining us early morning i
appreciate it so yeah looking forward to
chat we're talking all things category
content versus commodity content
so let's not be around the bush let's
jump straight in
for anyone that isn't familiar with
these terms camera what is
what is each if you give us a quick
round up of what each means really
that'd be great
yeah so everyone's going to have their
own sort of definition of it um
and i broke it down the other day of my
my personal sort of definition um
so so to start off with um
chris lockhead um mentioned
this uh this like concept of um
just callerly
calorie-less um content right like this
really like shallow content and it kind
of being what people want in general
right like if you think about listicles
and you think about um buzzfeed and um
uh just basically like really shallow
content it's um it's easier to consume
right
and it seems like easier to implement
and so
he gave this example of um
weight loss right like everybody
we don't need any more diets like
there's we don't need any more diet
books uh we have i think all of the
diets like down people know um
in general like that you need to
basically um consume
less um
and
exercise more right like that's that's
pretty much like all you need to know um
but like we keep kind of like looking
for like an easy answer um and this kind
of like explains like the the demand and
like prevalence of um
of commodity content is because it's
it's easy to create everyone's looking
for like an easy answer and an easier
way to create content and sort of like
um
a cheat sheet right to marketing um but
then on top of that they're
sort of being validated by this because
um the
more shallow content um tends to have
more mass appeal it's like easier again
it's like easier to consume it's easier
to like
digest
a tweet or something
that says like
you should let everyone have
a personal brand or you should
be nice to people you know what i mean
you should
is this one linkedin when people repost
tweets that say things like build a
personal brand on linkedin or
post what you think on linkedin or just
really simple stuff and is this why they
get such high engagement just because
for our brain that's just easy to
understand and we think yes that makes
sense
yeah like we exactly like it's it's easy
to digest and we agree with it and so it
has mass appeal right so this is like
actually an excellent
media company type play right if you're
if you're going for just reach and if
you're um if you're tam is everyone
right like if you essentially like are
going for for the world and that's the
audience that you're trying to build
then that this approach is is fantastic
for that because it it gets like it gets
that reach right um and it still
requires like some skill in that you
have to like distill something um to
like the most um simple form and you
have to have a hook like for it to
really go viral but um but if you look
at a lot of a lot of viral content um
it's
um it's it's mass appeal and it's it's
not very specific and in that way it's
not very helpful for for most people um
right like it's it's not going to
explain something that you don't already
know going back to like the diet example
like diets explain something we already
know most business books explain
something that you already know um
they're just putting it maybe in a form
that's like slightly
easier to digest
but they're not necessarily like adding
anything new to your life so that's kind
of like commodity content and i don't
want to discount it because um
because there is like that that media
brand play and like that awareness play
that's actually what's really helpful um
at the beginning and honestly we do um
we do some of the
the viral high reach um type type
content at our own company right but
like i think like the big sort of like
caveat is um
still having like the the strategy of
like does this appeal to
salespeople specifically right like um
it can be if you can still do memes like
you can still do tweets but like is this
gonna appeal to like to a sales leader
is this gonna appeal to like a sales rep
um
and you have to know like the nuances of
their day-to-day um to basically to sort
of nail humor um because because
otherwise it doesn't it doesn't speak to
them right it's uh it speaks to like
if you don't know them like it's gonna
it's gonna sound like your point of view
it's gonna sound like a marketer like
doing it right and so
so that's like that's the difference um
in sort of like elevating what i would
um call sort of like now media com
niche media content right it's like
that's like this next step that you
would take from like commodity to to
that and then i can get into um
yeah yes that's a great start so is the
rule of thumb on that camille for
commodity content that we shouldn't just
put out a generic tweet or a generic
post or something like that that's very
simple to understand that might try and
appeal to everyone unless we are some
huge media company but more so focus on
something that might be a me might be a
gif might be a retweet or something
similar but that's more going to
actually be in tune with our idle client
profile people that we actually want to
attract and do business with so that i
even find it funny educational helpful
and so on yeah um no it's a great
question so
so going back to like the the media
company sort of example like media
companies they
get revenue like through ad spend right
and so like the more the more eyeballs
like that you have on something um the
more you can charge for your ads and
that's your revenue model right and so
make sense like that you would um go for
reach right um
software companies are kind of like the
the opposite in in some ways right is
that like if you're if you're a startup
sas company you're looking to just break
into the market there's a lot of
software there's probably already
software that does something similar to
what you do right
unless you're like a true sort of like
category creator you're probably not the
first like in the market and you're in
at first like you're just trying to get
like a piece of the pie and typically
one of the best ways to get like a piece
in the pie is to go
niche like is
to get go narrow and
say like okay we're gonna go for
specifically
um aes or specifically like sales
engineers right instead of like trying
to take like the um
and some even if your your goal is like
okay eventually we're going to take
everyone right we're going to go like
the slack route and we want to be like
in every every team's like um home base
or every team's like tech stack um yep a
lot of people want that right like
everyone wants everyone um but it takes
a lot of discipline to say okay like
we're gonna go like really niche and
we're gonna like just take um take this
portion of the market and then like once
we win there we can like find the places
to expand because we're gonna see like
how they're referring it within their
team and who else is using it
um and that'll kind of like shake
product direction so where i'm going
with this is and how this relates to
content is
um
for a software company it often makes
sense to
to go narrow and to
create more of like a media company for
your niche right and like this is where
i think sometimes people go go wrong
it's like you just go for the vanity
metrics of um how many people are seeing
um my post and assuming that like
all is created equal there right that
like a um an intern seeing your post is
the same as like a decision maker seeing
your post right yeah or um you know what
i mean and so you're you're looking at
just the the quantity um type metrics
right of um likes and engagement and
reach and stuff and if you do that
you're going to be really disappointed
um with the with the
end results of lack of revenue and like
lack of quality pipeline because you
just went broad and you you don't get
the benefits of like going specific
getting those feedback loops um like
from that specific group because enough
of those people are seeing it um and
being that being someone's favorite
right um if you're trying to be
everyone's favorite you're probably
going to be no one's favorite
gotcha okay so are we talking about like
for example
is an example especially since they
recently rolled out analytics so you can
get more detailed on who has the
demographics job titles who are actually
engaging and viewing and consuming your
content so we're basically saying look
if we
post out generic things that we think
everyone's gonna like
and yes we're getting tons of likes
we're getting tons of impressions in the
feed but then we actually look at the
data and none of them or a very small
portion of them fit the client the niche
that we're going after
it's probably a waste of our time
yeah i mean exactly right um is that
like if you just go for quantity it's
like it's one gonna be too overwhelming
to like go in and um and nitpick like
the quality of that audience right and
you're just gonna assume right you're
gonna be like wow like a million is
better than five thousand so like we
should definitely keep doing this
strategy um and um
and to to some degree like quantity can
work um but it's sort of a a dangerous
game so that's why i like to um
pair it with more um category content
that um also sets you up as like a
leader in the space and like then you
can be known for that because the other
problem with them
category with a commodity content is
just the fact that
um anyone can do it right like any of
your competitors can do it any of them
can like sort of copy that that strategy
and like catch up to you pretty fast
right and you're not really known for
anything you're just uh you're just
there like you're just either
repurposing right you're like a
syndicator you're like sort of like
repurposing um other content um or
you are
not adding like enough value for people
to just keep coming back to you
specifically right like they're like
maybe like they'll continue following
you and like you're fun to have around
but you need to like add sort of unique
um
point of view and and value um for you
to be like the the leader in the space
and so i can give some um examples here
but this kind of um goes in nicely to
like what what is category content or
what are the factors
yeah it kind of without talking about
myself too much it kind of reminds me of
when i started on linkedin i basically
did what i shouldn't do i tried to
appeal to everyone and i'd makes posts
some days on business some days are on
sales some days are on marketing some
days will be on websites so probably
across the week is just a spectrum of
anything and everything
and i was wondering why i didn't get
inquiries or inbound leads or become
recognized for what i wanted to know and
then when someone said like sam what do
you actually do i kind of realized
was it broke me into the realization
that i should probably drill down into
in my case websites and seo and actually
post kind of tips and share useful
insights and stories around that and lo
and behold once i actually drilled down
and got a bit more niche
that's when kind of the inquiry started
to come over time so with that said
does
and this this can apply to commodity and
content and category content when we get
to it is this just for for social
because i know we've talked about
linkedin or twitter does that apply to
lots of other different channels as well
camille
no yeah it applies to all channels um so
i'll give an example that's like
non-social just uh
just as a as an example um so a few
things come to mind so um salesloft uh
at one point did a piece around
um
personalization in email right and
analyzing um
analyzing i think like millions of
emails and finding that you know 20
um is kind of like the sweet spot and
that you should personalize 20 of your
emails um verse 100 and that's where
you're gonna get like the most um
efficiency kind of like the best bang
bang for your buck um so i have kind of
like this deep um
insight uh into that back to back with
data right and that's ultimately a blog
but then you're able to repurpose like
those insights for
um for social um or for like a larger
report and so um so it's more like
what's the sort of like pillar content
um or like point of view that you're
starting with
and then finding the best way to sort of
like distribute that and like promote it
to your to your market like get it in
front of the people who care about that
content the
example that i'll that'll give for for
julie just give us a shout out is uh we
did like a sales happiness index and so
like one that's that's interesting um in
that uh we worked with a pr agency and
they essentially did a little bit of
analysis and like this is gonna like hit
the best like for
um for the market and that nothing
really exists for this right now so
that's like like category factor number
one right is like nothing like this
report exists right now and then number
two like what one thing that dually
actually does like the product actually
does um is like increase
seller happiness and like sales
happiness and satisfaction um both for
the reps and then for um for leadership
and um and then there's like a
productivity element in there too and so
we made sure that those types of
questions were in the report of like
what are you doing after hours how are
you working more or less anyways so
related to the product right like
there's there's product like strategy
there um and then two like not just
having the rapport but then also putting
it distilling it for people um like um
what's the shorter version like what um
what's kind of like the blog version um
that we can
that we can turn this into um and what's
that sort of like headline gonna be and
so um so the headline ended up being
like 41 of the work week um or the sales
work week is not spent selling right and
like and that's costing companies um 38
uh in revenue every quarter so so that's
like we tell you we tell you like the
point and like sort of our um take
that's it's not even our take like we're
backing it with data but we're basically
sharing like the market problem that we
helped solve like in the beginning um by
kind of surfacing the points like of the
whole thing um at the top and then we
break down like here are all the
blockers that are getting in the way
here's how else they're spending their
time that's that's not contributing to
revit revenue at all and so um so really
like breaking it down so that it's
simple and it's clear and maybe like in
that way resembles like the things that
work about um commodity content but in
like a very category like approach right
so like the best like category content
still uses the best practices from like
copywriting right like surfacing like
the points like to the top um having a
hook um and like simplifying the takes
right like one two three boom boom boom
like here here are the things you want
to know um
so like they're still easy to consume um
but there's like more substance behind
it there's like real research that goes
into it there's a real like
analysis on like how this um how this
relates to to us and like with the
takeaways from it so we're not expecting
people to you know go through and sift
through all the stats and all the
results we're just kind of like
surfacing the ones that people care
about got it
so it sounds like category content is a
lot more in-depth
in terms of using research using data
using insights
whereas commodity is a lot more surface
level easy to produce easy to consume
has that hook
whereas category is actually taking the
best practices from the commodity so
it's reeling you in with the hook making
it easy to understand you can kind of
skim parts if you want to but you can
get kind of more in depth if you want to
look at the stats if you want to look at
the breakdowns and all that good stuff
yeah exactly like the the way that i
think about it is um point of view like
you like factor number one is as you
need a point of view and this goes back
to um not only
content strategy but really like your
business strategy right like what is the
problem that you've seen in the market
right um and then
how how are you fixing it what's your
approach to fixing this problem and then
your approach to fixing that problem
and why that problem exists um and why
people should care about it like that's
all that's your business strategy but
it's also it also can be your content
strategy and so um so starting with that
like knowing having something to say
essentially is what it goes down to um
and then
using um like real data and it can be
qualitative it can be quantitative but
um using kind of uh real
data um and like social proof on like
why
um why we think this way
what we've seen in the market that made
us think this and what our customers
have seen what other people are seeing
you know bringing all of that to kind of
support your point of view so that's
that's kind of like the next thing and
then the third thing is um simplif um
simplifying um or explaining a concept
in a new way
so if you think about this again like
you're not gonna be the only one who um
in your category forever like other
people if it's successful other people
are going to like jump in and try and
replicate what you've done
that's always going to be the case and
so the
from a marketing perspective the way
that you win
is you
you own the category because you convey
your point of view and you convey the
problem better than anyone anyone else
has and you see this like going back to
the personal content going back to
linkedin content right
um nothing is new like no one's like
coming up with
worlds um
shattering like points of view like
they're it's all it's all it's all um
out there in terms of like uh
uh whether it's been like addressed
before so it's it's all about how can
you package that content um in a in a
way that makes it feel new right like
yeah that makes it feel um
basically like when you get it right
like you've we've all read um
books or
um
posts or blogs that's like oh i've never
thought about it that way like you want
you want your audience to think that
like i've never thought about it that
way um because you were able to explain
it like cleanly clearly and like with a
with a different angle um
and that kind of leads me to number four
which is the final one which is
is it sticky and so part of the way that
you do this is through storytelling
okay and um and storytelling like um and
creativity like at its most like base
form is really just like connecting two
different things and oftentimes for for
sas thoughts like
here's the problem
um
i'm going to explain this very clearly
so that you agree that it's the problem
um or at least we can have the
discussion that it's a problem
and then i'm going to connect it to like
this solution over here um we're going
to like connect these two things and
we're going to do that through a
metaphor like a story um something
that's like
that makes it click for you right and so
this is why like metaphors and um
similes and stories work so well because
you're relating it to something that
somebody already understands
um and already sort of like agrees with
right where if you're saying like
um
for this for this concept right here um
commodity verse category right like i
think in in a recent post like i talked
about um
commodity content being like empty
calories right being like donuts right
and so we all agree with that everyone's
like yeah we agree that donuts are empty
calories um and that they're not great
for you uh long term um
and so you're using that as kind of like
the the stickiness of like
like heads are nodding now because we
all agree
donuts are empty cut calories and i can
see now the connection that you're
making by even calling it commodity
content to begin with i understand the
concept of commodity and what you might
be getting at here and then sort of like
making that connection to
okay here's like more of the answer with
category content and then breaking that
down into into four like simple steps so
um getting sort of better here and like
using using the concept to explain the
concept but um but the point here is
like the stickiness factor and why like
commercials work and why like big brands
continue to like um
lean into
concepts that seem to have nothing to do
with what they what they actually sell
what geico does for instance like the 15
minutes a day uh type commercials and
with the gecko like it's creating this
like
recognition like pattern
that you um that makes it sticky right
and so stickiness is kind of the last
one
awesome can you just remind us of the
four steps that you walked us through
then sure so
point of view i'm having a unique point
of view um and then um research or
social proof like
um you know the the reason that i should
believe you um and then number three is
um kind of comes down to clear
communication um at its base but um
being able to explain something better
than anyone else
and then four that kind of like
um
it's it kind of helps with three like
they kind of work in tandem together but
four is that stickiness factor and this
kind of goes into like copywriting and
uh distribution strategies but like how
am i going to remember you
awesome i really appreciate the
breakdown that's made it crystal clear
and get been very actionable in terms of
how people can put it into play
so with that said is it a no-brainer
should should every business focus on
category content or is it is it as
simple as that or not
i
think that if you if you are starting
from scratch and um and ends no budget
then probably like your best like avenue
is to
um is to go pure like organic content
right and um and you're not worried
about like social and you're not even
like that worried about capturing demand
and so if that's the case you should
start with um category content um
because you should um be as you did sort
of like carving out this sort of like
name for yourself and being known for
something um i think it's
in some ways like easier to do if you
are a solo marketer or a solo
entrepreneur because you have like your
own um points of view and you don't have
to um
get buy-in um sort of like from from the
rest of the company to do it and um
you can you can just kind of carve out
your own niche um so i think in that
case like
go all in on category content i think a
lot of like software companies um can
and should do that what it needs to
start with is usually like you know
clear
business um business strategy um and
clear positioning and once you have like
those things set like then you can
create um category content like then you
can create basically like a very
um tight um content strategy and so
if you don't have those things you're
still kind of like working on
product market fit
or you have sort of a
tighter sort of runway for investors
or things like that where you need to
basically be
capturing some some demand um
and or or just building like a bigger
audience um
then it often makes time make sense to
sort of like combine the two right where
it's like you have your kind of um
more tends to be like more commodity
content that gets more eyeballs and that
brings in like more awareness um and you
kind of use that as uh your
distribution and uh kind of
reach engine you know to just
get known at the beginning because it
does take time to like build and like be
known for something and if you're
building a category um so you have that
as kind of something to i think i think
of it as like
buying you're buying you time or um
or creating like that runway for you to
build like this this larger thing that's
um that's more of an investment and it
takes more time so you kind of you start
with that you build an audience off of
that um
and you pair that with some of like the
category content that's going to get
less eyeballs but it's going to get more
of the right eyeballs and if you have
both of those things like kind of
together um that's kind of where the
sweet spot is because you can sort of
bring in a larger audience bring in like
more eyeballs um and
um just make sure it's like it's in in
your niche still um but maybe still has
like broader appeal and then um yeah and
then you pair that with kind of like the
hyper-specific thing of like this is
like if we had this one persona if we
could speak to this like one person um
then like our whole our whole business
would change or like our whole um
uh projections would change um and so
you hyper focus like on that with some
of the category content and um you pair
those things together and it's kind of a
sweet spot
awesome so
with that said
you mentioned earlier i think it was
salesforce as an example so if a company
wants to get started on for example
putting together category content should
they
put together really long form articles
that do what you guys duly have done or
salesforce have done that giving that
unique point of view still following
some best practices from commodity
content using hooks making it easy to
consume but then coming in with unique
data points ideas their own thoughts
their own opinions
um
and all that good stuff put it into a
massive long form article on their
website and then chop it up into a bunch
of social posts maybe podcast videos and
all that good stuff or is there a
strategy that you've seen works really
well for it
yeah so i mean it really depends on um
it really depends on your audience right
like where does your audience live right
now um you gotta you have to start with
that and then you're going to create a
um both a content creation and a content
distribution plan around that right and
so i would i would use that as kind of
like the caveat for this but then i'll
give kind of a few examples that come to
mind so
um
the going going back to kind of like
those um four factors um a couple things
smart that i've seen sas companies do
lately are one um like use your own
product product data like that's that's
unique to you like that's unique to your
product um and um you can essentially
like build your own internal feedback
loops right like how how is everyone
using our product um and if we have
enough like users on here
then are we able to
to use those insights in our content so
going back to this example from sales
loft and that they're they're able to
use their own like email product data um
as part of their marketing gong's done
this for for sales calls as well and so
it's not always possible
but you can do that and then there's
other examples of like uh what i call
like contextual content um but um it's
sort it sort of falls into this like
product um
strategy um
where you have maybe templates like
within within your content right or like
um to help people get started kind of
like with your product
and really like what that is is use
cases right like now i'm contextualizing
like how you'd use the product and i
might be using use cases from
other customers or i might be using them
from um consultants that like you really
respect right and so if you use some of
those like again like it's um while it
may be while you may be leaning on other
partners and customers and not
technically you
you are able to like create this library
that nobody has and so that's like
another way that i've seen it done and
then sort of the last thing is is
tapping into
your internal expertise um so this can
take a few different forms like your
founder if they have a very clear like
point of view and um positioning on on
the market and the problem that they
solve
then that can create like very good
category content right because it's like
this is broken
like it's often times like you come up
with those types of thought leadership
articles of like this is broken here's
why here was my experience here's why it
doesn't work anymore
and yes like that can start as an
article i think most powerful is when
if you have that person internally
that's a subject matter expert and
respected by the people you're selling
to so if you're a salesperson it would
be like your your vp of sales or in our
case our
our founder is also
a salesperson or start um started as a
salesperson um and so both of them um
are internal subject matter experts and
so having an interview like this with
them about their point of view like
captures that um video
that is very easy to repurpose if you
capture video and conversation then like
now you're able to repurpose that for
youtube be able to repurpose clips for
social um you're able to turn it into an
article so i find like that the best way
to
one be able to collaborate with the
people that have the knowledge like
they're probably the most willing to um
to sit down and chat than they are to
like sit down and write an article so
that requires like a lot of um
um what requires them to like to be to
be a good writer and also to like have
the time to kind of like flesh out their
thoughts whereas like they can just
share their thoughts and then a writer
or a content marketer can come in to
kind of like
help um
categorize or simplify some of those
thoughts
awesome yeah great example i mean like
you say video podcast recordings
possibilities almost endless because you
can really repurpose it chop it up
transcribe it get it into an article get
it into a blog get it into a
short form post and you you're good as
gold so that's that's good
so
taking everything we've we've now
learned in terms of the differences
between category content and commodity
content the pros and cons how to get
started how can we turn this
into cash in the bank into revenue for
our business
what kind of timelines are we talking
and how does it actually convert
viewers into demo requests
strategy calls or whatever the
kind of final call to action the final
conversion point is that we want uh
prospects to speak to sales teams for
yeah that's a great question so um what
it comes down to is marketing is still
even with the like the best strategy
marketing is still gonna be like um a
series of like strategic bets and so
you're gonna take bets on like this um
this is like the the content that is
going to
support our argument and um
explain a concept like in a way that is
going to make sense and so if you're
wanting to get to to revenue faster then
you you build a cadence or like a
regular cadence of um
of explaining educating
um the market and so this is why like i
like social so much is because you're
you would be able to break down um what
i would consider like category content
um into into micro videos or into
um
like a graphic that explains a concept
in a very like simple way and you can
post those like every single day
and um
and then you're educating your market
like every single day um on this like
broader pillar strategy you're giving
them like a piece of it every single day
and um and then eventually like the um
a potential buyer is educated enough
like that um that they come inbound
right um and there's there's two things
that go into like the consistency of
like seeing you every day um and not but
not just seeing you because that like
that can be commodity content right and
that can't necessarily um make an impact
for your bottom line but like learning
from you every day so if they're
learning from you every day
and i think that comes in two forms of
like
um you know
they're learning like a new stat or
they're learning something new about the
market that they didn't know like the
actual explaining education piece and
then there's the like insight piece
where like they feel like a light bulb's
gone off right they're like oh i've
never thought about it that way before
if you're doing like both of those
things um consistently um then you're
you're gonna like bring in revenue i
think like some leading indicators that
you can look at um
on social or just who who are the people
that are engaging with this right like
who's liking it who's commenting are
there are they tagging other people are
they sharing it with other people those
are going to be like more of your
leading indicators on like whether they
consider this this good or like relevant
sort of content um and then on the
website um something that i look at as
well is
um there's a feature in google analytics
um under goals where if you set the
goals um to be like you know demo
requests or signups or whatever then you
can see the
where that person converted but then you
can also see like the two or three pages
before that that they looked at to
convert right and so it might be
something like um case studies like in
in some cases um for us like this is
kind of how we saw that like some of the
the category content was working was
because it would be like the step or two
before they converted right before they
like requested a demo before they signed
up for
for content and so i look at those types
of things to see you know website
content what is resonating with people
and then also there's like the
qualitative stuff of um again going back
to that same example of that report um
somebody shared with us like hey this is
great and like uh linked to to that
report of like um this is really quality
content right and so
your audience will tell you um but the
thing i would just look out for is um
it's easy to fall into the trap of for
for marketers of like you're doing great
marketing like we love your marketing
but is that coming from your audience
like your target audience or is that
coming from other marketers right like
is that coming from um
from people that uh that just like you
or they just like your style and stuff
um that's not uh it's not worthless but
it can be like distracting so um just be
careful on like who you listen to um and
and where you're getting your sort of
like feedback loops um and use that to
kind of like um
fuel the the next thing
interesting
um
how do you claim
that when leads come in with a demo
request which i guess they would be for
dooley that it's from the content that
you've created are we talking dark
social we talking how did you hear about
us or the sales reps how did you hear
about us on inquiry forms are we talking
the sales reps ask kind of when they
pick up the initial discovery call and
say how did you stumble upon us today
and then they're saying look we followed
you on linkedin or we followed a piece
of content on articles and that kind of
stuff or is that how we're attributing
it to the work we're doing or is it
other ways
yeah so the most valuable type of
feedback and the most valid is um the
you know how did you hear about us like
ideally you want to track like all the
way to somebody actually
requesting a demo or somebody actually
being qualified and so the more you can
track like deeper in the funnel the
better of like what was it um that
not only got you interested but like why
are you here and oftentimes if you have
that open text field then you're able to
get more like um they might tell you
like two or three
executions that worked well for them or
two or three channels so um if you can
do that um great like we're in the
process of of doing that right now and
so in the interim something another
thing that's worked well for us is um
utm links like this is this is a little
bit tricky because it goes against like
how people typically consume content and
how they prefer to request demos um but
like it still gives gives us like
leading indicators of like okay if we
know that like a couple people clicked
this utm link like on this content that
there are probably more people that were
uh impacted uh by it but just didn't
want to click the link because that's
just not how we typically interact with
content so um so i use that as well um
on like the on the demo forms it does
show like the utm link of like the
campaign um that is how they sort of
came in so um we use that and then some
other sort of things that we that we
piece together to get the full picture
are
what you mentioned sales calls right and
so you can in gong and i think now in
chorus like you can add a
keyword um that you're trying to track
right so if we know if you know that
like podcast um is like the main thing
you're leaning into then maybe you'll
set like a a keyword for for podcast um
that you want to like track on those
sales calls that are sort of like ping
um and then same thing with like
linkedin right if you know like that's a
big part of your content strategy um and
something that you want to track um you
can set up like that as a keyword too um
it's not a perfect system but um the
second part of this is just uh
having good transparency within the team
so um
the sales team knows that like it's
helpful for for us um to know what's
working and it's helpful for them so
that we they can get better quality
leads right and so they're pretty good
about saying hey like this person came
from this or this person mentioned this
like they'll show that feedback you know
so that we can create those kind of uh
feedback loops and then again like dark
social you mentioned so um
this is another like hard thing to do
but anytime there's like some um
uh
love like some some duly love in terms
of like it's usually in like a dm and
somebody like dm'ing me and saying like
hey like love your content and then i'll
usually
say like why
right like what what was it that you
specifically liked and then i'll try and
like share that feedback um or you know
iterate on that feedback to make our
marketing better
awesome i think you've covered almost
every angle and i think what i like
about that is you've covered it more
than most people do a lot of marketers
get a bit shaky when i ask about how is
this actually actually contributing to
revenue but i like that you're almost
covering every angle from kind of how
did you hear about us right through to
google analytics utm codes um checking
the engagement checking idle clients or
actually liking engaging sharing in the
feed um which a lot of markers i just
don't think do enough of
yeah or they don't understand how to do
it
yeah i mean this is also just like a
shout out to um
to jenna so she she's our head of revops
um and she's done like a fantastic job
in terms of like creating the the
dashboards and reports that gives kind
of a little bit more you can never see
the full picture right but like it gives
a bit more visibility yeah um it'd be
too easy right um but that just gives a
little bit more visibility into like
where do we where do we think like
everyone is coming in from based on what
we're able to track right based on like
um these like utm links um
for they both paid and then we tend to
use them for like organic social as well
and so
based on that based on like how a sales
person can manually like update um
something or like we're pretty good
about like manually
updating if we get more data so um so
that and then our head of growth to sort
of like led the charge in terms of like
making sure we have better visibility um
making sure that we're adding like that
how did you hear about us
awesome is there a typical time frame if
a business got started on creating
category content today is there a time
frame in which they can expect to start
driving revenue from it
yeah i mean it um it really depends uh i
know i know like keep saying depends but
it really depends on your on your sales
cycle right like if you're if you're
selling into an enterprise like i would
not expect this to this to work like
within a month within two years um uh if
you're more transactional um and um
and have maybe like a a bigger tam in
the market of maybe you're just like a
more of a user um
uh type platform versus like b2b again
like shorter shorter sales cycles and so
so it's hard for me to say like when you
can expect to get results but um if i'm
just going off like um
data points from me talking to other
people about what they've seen from this
strategy and what i've personally seen
um on on doing this for myself um is
like
a quarter right so like um 90 days
basically yeah like consistent sort of
like action um because i feel like it's
it takes like a good maybe 60 to really
like sort of break into
um break into sort of a market and get
noticed at all even if you're creating
like top top quality content every day
if you're starting from scratch like you
just need that repetition um but then a
quarter typically uh is like enough to
like
to have to get traction for it to go all
the way to a
sales cycle or get all the way through a
sales cycle
and that makes sense right and it's like
you say it's going to depend on where
your company's at how long it takes for
buyers to buy your stuff if you're
selling a hundred grand a year product
it's probably going to take a bit longer
than something that costs i don't know
20 a month so it's yeah it's all
relative like most things in marketing
but with that said kim i really
appreciate you coming on the show this
has been a very very enjoyable episode i
think you've covered all points across
both sides of content just want to thank
you and i also want to thank you for not
buckling for under some pretty tough
questions a lot of marketers would and
really going deep and really sharing how
it contributes to revenue so we'd love
to have you back on the show at some
stage
for a uh another topic that'd be great
so with that said thanks for coming on
please do share about um how everyone
tuning in can connect with you learn
more and anything you wanna you wanna
promote to our audience
yeah yeah for sure um so yeah first off
thanks for having me thanks for asking
uh the challenging questions uh uh i
mean that's like how you get better
right going back to the feedback loops
um
that's uh that's part of the strategy is
like you have to be challenged um to get
better so um appreciate that and um plug
for for me i guess is um you can
find me on linkedin uh if you do have
questions about any of this like about
category content commodity content how
i'm thinking about it what i'm seeing
like in terms of our marketing strategy
connect with me camille trent um
linkedin's probably the best place and
then also you can um
and then take a look at dooley um both
are our blog we're starting to do some
interesting things in terms of thought
leadership content um repurposing
content
um
and uh
yeah and more explainer content so we
have like a pretty good mix over there
and then i'm also really active on
linkedin so you can take a look at our
page
awesome and we'll put all of those over
at the show notes all those links on the
show notes at businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks once again for
coming on the show camille really
enjoyed it thank you sam appreciate it
no worries no worries at all so as
always if you enjoyed today's episode be
sure to hit subscribe on youtube or if
you're tuning in to the audio podcast a
quick rating is always appreciated and
with that we should catch you on the
next one cheers for tuning in